1. Code::Blocks - an extensible and fully configurable IDE designed to support 
its users most demanding needs, supports C, C++ and Fortran. It provides a 
consistent look, feel and operation across all platforms for seamless transitions 
between work spaces, and it’s built around a plug-in framework, providing a 
multitude of options for extension. It’s open-source and offers cross-platform 
functionality with no hidden costs.

2. Eclipse - Many development frameworks are built on Eclipse, a free, open-source
editor that was initially a Java environment but a variety of plug-ins have 
extended its capabilities considerably. The Eclipse Standard 4.3.2 version, for
instance, includes the Eclipse Platform along with the tools required to debug 
it, plus Java and Plugin Development Tooling and Git and CVS support. If your
requirements are different, you can choose from a variety of Eclipse Package 
Solutions, including tools for Java developers, Scout Developers, RCP and RAP 
Developers and more.

3.NetBeans - An intuitive, drag-and-drop interface with project templates, binary
and static libraries, and many useful functions to make your life simpler,
NetBeans is a popular IDE for C and C++ projects. It also supports Fortan and
Assembler files, with GNU Debugger Integration and code assistance, NetBeans
is a functional IDE for editing existing projects, building on templates or
building from scratch on most leading platforms. There are also multiple NetBeans
Enterprise IDE Download Bundles with options that support several additional
technologies, including Java, PHP, HTML5 and more.

4. Komodo IDE - Komodo is a comprehensive IDE that supports all major programming 
languages, providing a single tool that meets your development needs across the 
spectrum. Whether you’re working with Python, PHP, Ruby, Perl, HTML, CSS or 
JavaScript, Komodo provides a clean, intuitive interface with advanced editing 
capabilities and integrated tools for the most functionality.

5.Aptana Studio 3 - Aptana, recently acquired by Appcelerator, offers one of 
the most powerful open-source IDEs: Aptana Studo 3. It’s been completely 
re-built to provide a faster and seamless environment for developing and 
testing an entire web application using a single environment. Aptana Studio 
3 supports all the major browser technology specs, eliminating compatibility and 
testing challenges to speed your time to deployment.  